oh using music as a form of resistance
during the Bosnian war in the '90s
actress Amina Mage performs for children
in Saro Under
[Music]
Siege fast forward almost 30 years later
she's using art to honor those killed in
the war on
Gaza I felt not just duty but an
enormous desire to raise awareness about
the war in Gaza I transformed that
desire into artistic expression less
than a month ago we staged a performance
and we called it
pain other Bosnian actors joined an
initiative by the ashter theater an
nonprofit Palestinian Ensemble based in
ramala it called for readings and
performances around the world of the
play the Gaza monologues the play was
written and first performed in 2010 by
Palestinian youth who described the
horrors of these isi war on Gaza in 2008
as a people who survived genocide who
survived the siege who survived
aggression I think that it is Our
obligation uh uh uh to be the people who
will always be the first who raise their
voice for a for a for a for a people in
in positions like the Palestinians are
at the moment Not Just In This Moment In
last 75
[Music]
years but even those who did not live
through through the war in Bosnia are
also speaking out these two hip-hop
artists staged a humanitarian concert
for Gaza in
November one day we were recording in a
studio the vibe was great until a friend
showed an Instagram real of bomb
children Gaza at that point energy in
our studio died out we stopped recording
and started brainstorming on what to do
to help
Gaza every morning when I wake up and
look at my phone I feel sickened by The
Silence of the world just like they were
silent about Bosnia in
'92 solidarity with the Palestinians
goes beyond the stage Addis was less
than 15 when he picked up a rifle to
defend Sara during The Siege this is a
photo from his military ID current
scenes from Gaza triggered his own War
traumas he
says went on and we forgot about the war
but now with the crimes unfolding in
Gaza we also feel that our own memories
are resurfacing we are much more
emotional about it than people in the
west look at this city it used to be a
small
Gaza the UN Court in the ha found a
Bosnian Ser military and political
leadership guilty of war crimes I'm
standing in front of the Saro City Hall
a well-known Monument burned down into
war it's been renovated just like the
rest of the city but the psychological
cars of the war are still visible
here for many bosnians it is very easy
to empathize with the people of Gaza
because they already know what life is
like under siege without food water
electricity and little humanitarian Aid
a alaz
s make sure to subscribe to our channel
to get the latest news from Al
jazer